All right, you guys, come on in. You
ready? Day three. That--
I was just, talking. We've got Jeff and, and Lindy here behind the
scenes today in our VIP room, and, we were just
talking about how this has been fun.
And you're the reason why this has been fun.
You guys signed up for the VIP experience,
and I have to tell you something before we go live stream.
We're gonna go live here in just a minute on Facebook.
But it makes a difference for me to have
you here
in the back office, in the room with me
as, we, we share these principles out to a
fairly large group on, on
Facebook, but it feels to me like you guys are
my people. You know? 'Cause you're here, you're with me,
and I feel that support. I want you to know that.
Some of you are coaches, and you do events and things.
I think it's really great to find a way to do it that is
energy rich. Energy
rich. Ah, Karen. Yeah, good to, to have
you here too. Um, the chat is open by the way.
Karen already discovered it.
Yes. Good morning, Deb, Rose. Hi, you guys.
This is so fun. Okay, so you guys are welcome to interact in the chat.
I'm not gonna be monitoring it a lot until we get to the VIP
session. Um, but, but we've got Lindy
here. Jeff's gonna be mostly on Facebook kind of monitoring the
chat there. But if you have questions or anything, just bring them up.
If you chat to host some panelists, it just comes to, to
us here, in the admin room. But if you chat to everyone, then
you can, interact while you're here 'cause you guys have some great
energy, and I'm so grateful for you. Thank you for being here.
We're going to
go live
in just a moment. Okay, I'm gonna pause the recording while I
get this live stream going.
Hello and welcome, day three of the
Emotional Freedom Challenge. There's some neat
things happening, you guys. I had a comment just
this morning I had responded to. Um,
let me find it real quick. Here I am.
I'm shifting between s-screens. Yes,
Mia or Maya, I don't know how you pronounce it, but thank you so
much for sharing what you did in our Facebook group.
And it was about yesterday's challenge, Better By Eight.
How's that going by the way? And the first
challenge is still underway with the gratitude power
up. Um, but here's, here's the comment that we got
from, Mia. I'm just gonna guess Mia.
"Can you be better by eight PM even after receiving a cancer
diagnosis call earlier that afternoon?" My
answer? "Yes. After attending the webinar
yesterday, I made a conscious effort to stay focused and
diligent. I completed my twenty-five five from Monday and
worked through my newest assignment, BBA.
A few hours later, everything shifted.
I received a call from my seventy-six-year-old mother sobbing.
She had just been diagnosed with cancer for the third
time. In that moment, I knew I had to pilot the
plane. I immediately checked my plane's attitude
indicator." I love this, Mia. "Just as Dr.
Paul described, instead of spiraling, I grounded
myself in that strategy and made a decision to keep moving forward
with intention. Because of that, I stayed on
course and reached eight PM with a positive
mindset. And honestly, it felt incredible.
Far better than ending the day overwhelmed and defeated, sitting on the
couch with my thoughts. Instead, I proved to myself that even
on one of the hardest days, I could still show up, stay
steady, and move forward. Thank you for the
opportunity of being with you for the Emotional Freedom
Challenge." Wow.
That is so cool. Thank you for sharing that,
Mia. This is our story with your details, and
I'm so sorry to hear about the news about your
mom, but I am so excited to
see the way you are implementing these powerful
principles
in such an immediate way.
I, I came into this
knowing,
a-and I know this from
my clinical experience over now three decades, that the
deliverables are available to you, and they're available
immediately as you lean in. Those deliverables are
peace in your mind and heart,
confidence in your roles and relationships, and
hope for better things to
come. You guys are sharing that you're
already receiving those, those deliverables, and it's so
amazing to watch that. Okay, day three.
I promised you yesterday that we would dig into
one aspect of the creation
process. I'm not gonna bother to find, find
the, the graphics that I shared with you
yesterday. Actually, I'm gonna show you another place you can find them.
In chapter twenty-four of my book, I go
through... Does that look familiar?
I go through those same processes.
This is chapter twenty-four of Pathological Positivity,
where we break down that creation process that we did a deep dive into
yesterday.And I promised you that we would get into
the choice today, and that's where I would
like to start. We've also got some other fun things coming up, so
stick around because we've got a
giveaway today, and I- I'm gonna
get to that pretty soon. Okay? Um, within the first half hour, I'm
gonna take a quick break and give you a chance to enter a drawing to get a gift
today because I felt a nudge,
and part of what I'm doing this year is following
nudges, and it has paid off so
nicely in relationships and my own
experience in life, my own emotional freedom, the
nudges. Okay? We're gonna come back to that 'cause I wanna talk about the voices
in your head. And some people get nervous when a
psychologist says, "The voices in your
head."
Did you know that I'm aware that you hear voices?
I know. You're not weird. It's, it's a human thing.
I'll explain that to you in just a little bit.
Let's get into
the choice, and we're-- Remember the choice as I
described it,
it's all about paradigm.
Okay? And we use these eyeglasses as an example of what
paradigm is all about. It's the
way you see things,
and it's, it's cool that we label this
aspect of the creation process as the choice
because
until you see it as a choice, it's not.
And part of my job is to illuminate that to you so that you can be
in choice. Now, what you do with the choice is totally up to you, but until
you see it as a choice, it's not. Choice
is preceded by awareness. Uh, awareness precedes choice, is the
way I usually say that. So knowing that, let's
take a look at what this paradigm thing is all about.
The, the-- A quick story because here's where the glasses
metaphor came from. Back in
1896, and I know when I do this with,
especially with a virtual audience, you guys can Google anything that I share
with you, and I know my information to you needs to be
Google-proof, and you go to AI or whatever you want.
I believe it was 1896, check me on this if you
want, a guy named George
Stratton, who was a psychologist like me,
was doing some research, and his research was in
the area of human perception. He thought it
was interesting that the lens in our eye
flips everything upside down when it's projected
onto the retina in the back of your
eyeball. Did you know this?
And it's true. Go look that up if you want.
The image is upside down on your retina, but you don't see it as upside
down. So his experiment was to see, okay,
what would happen if the image on your retina weren't
upside down or the other way? So what he did was developed a pair of
eyeglasses that turned everything upside
down.
Now, this is weird, arguably, and who
wants to sign up for that?
You? Yeah, well, that's what his research subjects,
potential research subjects thought too.
Nobody signed up, so he put these glasses on
himself.
And as you can imagine, at first,
everything is upside down. Okay? So the floor
is there, the ceiling
down there. Can you imagine what it would be like to just walk through your
house, and he's bumping into stuff?
I mean, i- imagine filling up a cup of water at the
sink, or are you filling it down? I don't
know. Weird.
Well, after a few days, he got used to
it. You know how you kinda make adjustments?
You can, you can adapt and adjust, and that's what he was doing.
He wasn't bumping into stuff quite as much.
Um, he was getting around a little better.
On day eight, and yes, that's how long he
stuck with it, something really remarkable happened.
And you might know, you may have heard about this back in your psych
class.
Everything looked normal.
Wait, what?
Everything looked
normal. It was no longer upside down.
Looking through the glasses, he didn't take them off yet, he
said, "It is
absolutely
correct now." Let's push
pause for just a minute, you guys, because I just got a message that the
feed might not be working on Facebook. Hang on.
W- We'll-- Let's pause the recording.
And I think we've worked it out,
and I think I got to the point where our friend, Dr.
George Stratton, saw
everything normally on day eight, and this freaked him out, so
he took the glasses off, and then everything was
upside down. He had to adjust
back, and it didn't take him the full eight days to adjust back.
But what we learned through this research, and by the way,
it's been replicated with other people other than the crazy
psychologist who tried it first, and everybody has a similar
experience. When we alter the
perception, what happens is your
brain-Has two main
jobs, keep you safe
and to prove you right.
Let's talk about that second job for a minute because to prove you
right, your brain is working
overtime to show you that what you see
is correct. Wait a
minute. Write that down somewhere in your notes.
Your brain is working to
prove to you,
because you're not proving it to anybody else, to prove to you that you're
right.
And that even happens with eyesight and vision. You've done this with sunglasses.
You put on a pair of sunglasses, what does the world look like?
Darker. How does it look after a couple of
hours?
See, once you adjust to that, your brain starts to tell you, "Oh, this
is the way things are," and it looks totally normal to you.
You take them off, and then everything's too bright.
Keep that in mind for a minute. If we change the color
of your lenses, so for example, if we were to color
these lenses green, okay? We,
we just shade those puppies in. How would
the world look?
You'd be in the Emerald City. Your lawn looks
awesome. Your spouse, not so much .
Everything's green. Well, is the world green? No.
But it looks green to you. After a while, it would
look normal,
just like with your sunglasses. We change those to red, now we got the
proverbial rose-colored glasses.
And the world didn't change, but the way you see it
changed. Now, the-- I d- I shared a word
with you earlier. It's called paradigm.
I'll just put that in here.
And paradigm is just one of those fancy psychological
words for how you see things.
How you see things.
And how you see things looks normal to you.
It doesn't mean you're right
. It just, it simply means that that's the way you're used to seeing
it. As we look at these two
paradigms, here's my invitation to you:
Notice what's going on in your own mind.
What, what is it
that you're seeing? How are you seeing the
world? Just notice it, okay? I'm not
asking you to
decide whether it's right or wrong, whether you're accurate or not.
I just want you to see it, okay? And then we'll figure out what to do with it
from there, because awareness precedes
choice.
You with me? Now, here's what these two paradigms are.
I gave you a little intro to this yesterday.
We-- And this shows up, by the way, in almost
all of the personal development,
self-improvement literature. And I know 'cause I read a
lot. That's the genre that I write.
And I've read a lot of material in this space, and there's
almost always some version of these two
paradigms.
And they have different labels and titles.
I'll share the ones that I've come up with,
that worked for me. On this side, we have the
victim.
Now, I don't mean
a victim of abuse or a victim of crime or a
victim of circumstance. I mean a victim
pair of glasses.
A, a victim lenses through which we view the world.
So keep in mind, this is not describing a person.
It's describing a paradigm, a way
of seeing things. So, please refrain
from labeling yourself or others as a
victim. I think it's probably more accurate to
describe victim mode. All right? Or
I've got the victim lenses on. And you can change
these, by the way.
I mean, d- if they don't suit you well.
Victim versus,
on this side, I like this
word.
And I've heard people use hero or victor as
a, 'cause it, kinda like victim, but it's different.
I like agent, because an agent
is a sovereign
entity
that has the power to choose, and
that's why I like that word.
These are, are in direct opposition to
each other. So as we break it down a little
bit, victim...
Let's see. I'm just checking in to see how we're
going.
I think... I think we're
okay. We're still live on Facebook.
Uh, Jeff, I don't know what happened to your presence there, but,
hopefully you can get reconnected.
Okay. Hey, you know what? While we're on a, just a quick little
pause, here's what we're gonna
do. Um,
and
I'll write it here because then it will be available for the next few
minutes.
DrPaulJenkins.com/Forward
slash drawing.
D-R-A-W-I-N-G.
DrPaulJenkins.com/drawing.
Lindy just put it in the chat here in the VIP.
Um, Jeff, if you are back on Facebook or if one of you awesome
Facebook attendees could put this link in
the, the comments there. Here's what we're doing and what
you're gonna do. If you go to that link, you're gonna find a form.
This is a drawing, and we're going to do this
drawing in about 10 or 15 minutes. Whenever I finish
introducing the victim and agent thing to you, I'm coming right back to
this. But we're gonna do a drawing because I felt a
little nudge that probably
something would make this experience better, and I, I thought to
myself, "What would make it better?" And then I remembered something that
Vicky told me once. She said, "Everything is better
with chocolate." I'm going to give
away some chocolate.
Whoever wins the drawing. Now you can only enter once, okay?
So go fill out the form,
DrPaulJenkins.com/drawing,
and we're gonna do a random drawing here in about 10 or 15 minutes,
whenever I finish with this. And you will receive
as a gift for winning the drawing a gift
box of ChocoLove. And if you're
familiar with ChocoLove, it's some of the best chocolate on
the planet. It's made right here in the mountain west in
Colorado. Uh, I know the people
who, who designed and, and market this chocolate.
It's
wonderful. You're gonna love it, I promise.
We'll send you a gift box. That's what the drawing's all
about, so here's the following nudges, okay?
Here you go.
DrPaulJenkins.com/drawing if you
can read my font here.
That's gonna be open here for the next, 10 minutes or so.
So if you want to just pop in, fill out the form, and I'm talking
about it a little bit here to give you time to fill out the form 'cause I don't
want you to miss this. And, I got a little
comment here from Karen. "Oh, I thought you were gonna say it was Finland."
Also excellent chocolate is Fazer,
F-A-Z-E-R. It's a Swiss name
but a family that emigrated to Finland, and they do amazing chocolate
too. The giveaway is
ChocoLove, ChocoLove. I've got a little gift box
that's... It's amazing. You get a little sample of several of their best
things. All right. Um,
have fun with that. Fill that out. One entry per
person, and, I'm, I'm going to do
that drawing here in a few minutes.
Okay, let's get back to this, victim and agent.
Oh, and by the way,
if we're not having fun, we're doing it wrong.
And that-- I think that's why I got the nudge.
I mean, I get kind of serious sometimes here teaching all
these principles of positive psychology, and I'm really good
at that. I mean, it's what I do. Um, I'm a black belt in
positivity. Um, and so I'm happy to share that with
you, but the nudge I got this morning was, "Hey, let's have some fun.
Let's give away some chocolate." Everything's better with
chocolate.
Okay, I keep getting distracted. Back to this, victim versus
agent. Here's...
The first thing that comes to mind for me on victim is blame
because in a victim way of seeing the
world,
it's not my fault. Mm.
And you don't have to even watch
the news very long to see what some of the favorite targets
are. I mean pol- politics.
Please. Right? That-- it's, it's like, "Them!
It's them!" And, and basically anything that has an
us and them feel to it is victim
thinking. And it goes back to our tribal
roots and how we asked-- we used to defend our cave and stuff,
I guess. But this, this pointing, this
blaming, and it could be that we blame the
economy or the weather. I was blaming the economy.
I was blaming those guys that I had invested with.
Do you remember my story on day one?
Uh, there, there are ways that we point the
finger, and when our finger's
pointed... Come with me back to another time I
was driving, and I hope I'm not the only one who has done this, but you
know when you're sometimes driving and you get lost in your thoughts
and, and, you go right past your exit?
You're listening to a podcast or something. And I did this.
I was going to see a client who lives in
southern Utah, a little town called St. George.
I'm going down to see this client, and I knew I had missed my
exit
when I saw the big colorful
sign, "Arizona welcomes
you." And I'm like, "C**p."
I'm looking around myself. I'm in the desert of Arizona.
This is not what I had in mind. This is not what I had
planned.
How often does that show up in life?
This isn't what I had in mind, not what I planned. I didn't think...
This is what I signed up for. And then I look
down, and guess whose hands I see on
my steering wheel.
Okay, now that bites a little
when you realize, oh, I'm
here-Because I drove
here? Now, notice this is
not the same as blame. What I call
this... Oops, let me grab that
marker. What I call this is
responsibility.
And actually, in my book, I divide that into two words.
I'm gonna do that again here.
Responsibility,
it's your ability to respond. And I'm gonna give it
to you here
that it's hard. It's not fun to
see your own hands on that wheel and have that realization, "Oh, I'm
here." You remember in our story with my details, it was a
bankruptcy, and it's like, "Oh, I drove here,
didn't I?" Which is not the same as blaming
myself. It's realizing that my hands are on the wheel,
because the bad news is also the good
news. If my hands are on the wheel, what can I
do now?
Okay? In a victim mode, I can't do
that. My hands aren't on the wheel.
I'm too busy pointing. And if I'm too busy
pointing, my hands aren't on the wheel.
Choose
your attitude, your position. Do you
want your hands to be positioned on the wheel?
Or are you good waiting for whoever or
whatever you're blaming? I spent thirteen
years of my career doing yuck work,
and what I mean is child custody
evaluations for the court.
Child custody eval- This is bitter, angry, divorcing people who
can't figure out how to share their kids.
And who do you think they are blaming for all their
problems? Each other. And I
got in the middle of that sometimes.
I took some crossfire.
How soon is the ex
gonna make everything okay?
You see the trap? When you're pointing, your hands aren't on the wheel.
When your hands are on the wheel, they're not pointing.
Choose
blame
or responsibility. We're not gonna blame ourselves.
You d- It's not your fault. See, we use that term
a lot too. That's a victim term, actually.
Fault means error
or mistake or, th- I mean, it, it
implies that something is broken.
Y- you're not broken. You're human.
You're, you're doing the best thing that you know how to do at every
step. And as Maya Angelou put
it, "When you know better, do
better." Ding, ding, ding.
All right. Do you see it? I invite you to see it.
I'm not saying change it. Uh, I don't want anybody to
feel criticized. How you feel is up to you. I mean...
But what I invite you to do is to see it.
You with me? Here's another one. Why
me?
And I, I shared with you a little of my story on this one.
It-- Why me? This might have been in the VIP room, actually.
I can't remember. I'm here for two hours every day.
Um, why me?
Usually in a whiny voice. Um, the story that I
shared, and apologies for not remembering which group I shared it in, but,
my-- I was diagnosed with a neurological condition called
spasmodic dysphonia clear back in two thousand and
two, and, it affects my voice.
And my first question was this one: Why me?
I'm a psychologist. I need my voice, right?
What's the agent
side of this one?
I love this. Why not
me?
My fonts get worse as I go down the page, so just bear with
me. Why not me? It's just as
legitimate a question.
But in victim mode, we never ask that because we're too busy, you know,
whining.
Why not me? Am I not just as qualified as every other
individual on the planet who gets diagnosed with this?
Think about this. What kind of people get into car
accidents?
It was just a couple of years ago. I was on the way to the office here to do a
webinar like what we're doing here today.
Had about two hundred people signed up.
And I'm just sitting there at the light over here on Eight Hundred
East here in Orem, near my office, and the light
changes, and I'm thinking about the webinar, and as I move out in the
intersection, bam, out of nowhere,
some student driving forty miles an hour through a red
light takes off the first eight inches of my truck.
Airbag explodes in my face.
You know how we talked about it could always be worse?
Two seconds sooner into the
intersection, and he would have hit me
broadside. Probably not even two
seconds. I would have been in the hospital at
best.
See how this works? So grateful, right?
That my truck was totaled? No, that I wasn't totaled.
Could always be worse.
What kind of people get into car accidents?
And yet we are still tempted to say, "Well, why me?
Why did this happen to me?" The kind of people who get into car
accidents are the kind of people who get into cars.
Uh, and we wanna say, "No, it's the negligent ones, the drunk ones."
Yeah, they get into car accidents, but who are they gonna
hit?And some of them are just plain
accidents.
So why not me? Am I not just as qualified as everybody else?
Okay, you with me here? Here's another one.
Scarcity.
Scarcity. And it usually happens first thing in the
morning. I didn't get enough sleep last night.
You ever been in victim mode? Yeah, me too.
Me too. We're humans. Welcome to the planet.
There you go being human again.
But that's scarcity. You got whatever sleep you
got. It is what it is. It could always be more, it could always be
less. And your body
will have you sleep
sometime soon,
right? I mean, we do it all the time.
Now, I'm not arguing against good sleep hygiene.
The, the-- that's not what this is about. It's about that mindset.
It's about those lenses that you choose, and until
you see it as a choice, it's not.
What if you woke up saying, "I'm so grateful for the sleep I got last
night," no matter how much it
was? See, this is what's called
abundance.
And using sleep as an example, that's kind of a funny one because you're going to
sleep.
And, and your story might be, "I never get to sleep." That's not true, is it?
You do get to sleep, and eventually your brain is gonna
put you to sleep again.
Abundance, it's like air, it's abundant around us. I don't have...
Scarcity. I don't have enough time, love,
money, attention.
We're living in lack.
When you live in lack, what do you do with
things? You hoard them.
There's, there's a show on reala- reality TV show about
hoarders. Have you ever seen that?
I used to work with some hoarders in my practice, in my old psychotherapy
practice.
When we are so entrenched in scarcity, we try to
cling to and hold and, and collect and
grab, grab, grab.
In abundance, what do we do with things? We share them.
We put them into movement. Currency, money,
currency is supposed to flow, not be
hoarded. And, and, and we share and
give, and it's much more
outward-focused. All right? Le- One
more, and then I think that's probably enough for this.
Um, this one. I can't.
Okay, usually with an exclamation point after it.
And when you decide you can't, remember,
your brain has two main jobs, to keep you safe and to prove you
right. And as soon as you decide you can't, you're right.
Why? Because there's no next
step. Think about that. What is the
next step after I can't? There
isn't one.
I mean, shut down in the corner, I guess.
Go in the fetal position. And, and it's like, "I can't do
this. I can't handle
it." Which, by the
way... Okay, I'm going to insert more positive
psychology here for you, because I want you to understand the science behind
this. I can't, according to Dr.
Susan Jeffers - y- you guys Google proof this,
okay? Dr. Susan Jeffers wrote a book called Feel the
Fear and Do It Anyway. And the the title is every
bit as good as the book. But she points out in that book
that under every
fear
is the same belief, and that's it.
I can't. And specifically, I can't handle
it or that. Whatever it is that I'm afraid of.
I can't handle that. How would you
feel if you believed
that you can handle anything?
Anything at all.
Do you see how your fear would go away? It would be totally irrelevant.
All right. How about this side? How...
And I'm going to alter it because it's hard to say,
"I can," if we don't believe we can.
So let's turn it into a question. How can
I?
How can I handle it?
Well, I'd need to get some support or some help. How can I...
Le- here's another one. I can't afford it.
I used to be there, remember? I went through a bankruptcy to learn all
this. I can't afford it.
Meaning, I'm done. Guess I'm... That I just...
My life has to be this way. What happens
when you move to how can I afford it?
Y- you don't even need to know how at this point. Just ask the question.
It turns your brain on. This is like a power switch on your
brain. When you say, "I can't," what position is that
power switch in? Off. Shut her
down. Guess we're done here.
What position is it in if we say, "How can
I?" Do you see how your amazing brain just turns on?
It's infused with power and
possibility. All right. Now...
Oh, I gotta give you the bottom line, and then we have, we
have a winner. Winner, winner, chicken dinner.
I mean, winner, winner, chocolate gift
pack. I'll tell you who it is in just a second.
Let's get to the bottom line here, because there is a predictable
outcome.As I share this with you, please
understand that we know
where it leads through research and clinical
experience, and check your own life experience and see if this is
true. When we are in victim mode
the outcome is
captivity.
Captivity, some form of stuckness.
In fact, stuck is the way that it's almost
always expressed to me in
my line of work. "Doc, I just feel so
stuck." Oh, see, that's a signal to
me. Oh, okay, yeah, I know where stuckness comes from,
but it, it, it ranges from being stuck to being
incarcerated.
I've worked in
four correctional facilities
through the course of my early training in psychology.
S- incarcerated
almost always is a result of some form of victim thinking.
Well, think about scarcity, for example.
If you're living in scarcity, you're gonna go try to steal
stuff. Well, that's against the law in most
jurisdictions. Or if you feel entitled, that's another
victim kind of a thought. Entitlement, you
violate other people's rights because I deserve
this.
Captivity. What's true on this side?
Liberty.
And I love what Victor Frankl said about liberty.
He said, "We really un- we really misunderstand our freedom
here in the United States," and when he was still alive and he was speaking.
By the way, Victor Frankl is the author of a book called Man's Search for
Meaning, and he said that everything can be taken from a human
except the last of human
freedoms. That's what he called it, the last of human freedoms,
to choose your
attitude, also known as position, in
any given set of circumstances, to choose your own way.
And he said when we
don't realize the
responsibility, the personal
responsibility that we have, then
freedom is, is arbitrary. He said to experience true liberty
you have to couple it
with personal
responsibility.
All right, guys, this is powerful.
I've got another, thing I wanna share with you before we wrap up.
Let's get to our winner, winner.
ChocoLove coming your way. Da da dun da
da.
Don't you love the way I do my own sound effects?
Rachel from Winchester, Virginia.
Congratulations, Rachel. We're gonna send some
ChocoLove your way. Um, look for
that, and let us know when you get it, okay?
And let us know what you think about it. ChocoLove, Rachel.
Congratulations. So glad that you
entered. And, I'm considering some
other little giveaways, so make sure you come back live tomorrow and
Friday. It's only the people who attend live who get to participate in those
drawings. If you're watching the recording, we just don't
love you that much. I'm kidding. We love
you. I know you couldn't come live, but if you can, there's
special bonuses that happen. All right, how we doing with
this? We good?
Remember, in the context of creation...
Let me go to my book because I wanna tie this back into what we talked about
yesterday.
Okay, you remember, it starts with
discontent, then we go to the
choice, then we go to the question, if not this, then
what, and then we go to the plan, which is where we
create it in the cloud in our imagination, and then we put the
work in to move the materials around to match the plan that we
came up with, and that's when we get the
manifestation. All right, this is
what we're talking about today, choice.
This is so crucial
to creating anything.
Remember, what is to be
doesn't exist yet. We haven't created it yet, and
so the only place it exists is in our imagination.
We won't create it in our imagination if we haven't asked the question,
if not this, then what? Moving back another step, what if we're
stuck
in victim mode?
If we are stuck in victim mode, we don't even move through
to create a solution to the discontent that we
are experiencing, and that's a little selfish, because it's not just about
us. It's about all our fellow humans on the planet who
might be waiting for the
solution that we come up with so they can experience
it. I'll return to that tomorrow. We're digging
into our key relationships tomorrow and the influence
quadrant. That's going to fit right in.
We're not even gonna go there, people, if we are stuck
in victim mode. And if we are stuck in victim mode, that's
okay. Humans do that. Remember,
on my floor, I told you about my floor,
and that's a mild example. Okay? But in that floor example,
I was in victim mode for about a decade.
Because here's what happens. When we ch- at the choice
phase... Remember the, the graphics I just showed you.
At the choice phase-If
or when we choose agent, we move forward through the
rest of the process. Be careful because it's going to reboot and at
every step in the process you're going to encounter more discontent and you'll
have the same choice to make.
Does this resonate with your experience?
Don't take my word for any of this. I want you to run it through your own
filters.
See if it's true. This is absolutely true in my
personal and professional
experience.
If or when we choose victim
- and until you see it as a choice, it's not.
Awareness precedes choice. I invite you to see it.
When we choose victim,
we recycle our
discontent. And I still remember
a session. I had a client right here on this couch.
Yes, I have a couch. I am a psychologist.
I had a victim right here - ha, victim.
Oh my gosh, did you hear that? I had a client sitting here,
and she had been in victim mode,
but I was talking about how we recycle our discontent and I referenced a
scripture from the Bible that talks about a
dog returning to its vomit.
Ew. But that's what recycling
discontent looks like. And, and
this client said, "Ew, like a puke smoothie."
And I'm like, "Thank you for that image
just before lunch." But you know what?
I've never forgotten it, and you probably won't either.
Um, you're welcome or I'm sorry. I don't know.
Whichever one fits. W- how
long are we willing to just go back and recycle those puke
smoothies?
What if we were to set that thing down and move forward?
That's what the agent choice allows us to do.
And in, in terms of creation, it's absolutely
essential.
All right.
I've got a little bonus for you today, okay?
I hadn't planned on talking about this, but what I would
love to invite you to do... Let's get past...
We've got all of our creation mode
here. All right. Let's go here.
I thought, I would be doing you a disservice if I didn't show you
my dots. Now, some of you have seen my
dots. Um, if you'll be patient with
me for just a minute, it takes a, a second to set it up, and I want to
make sure that it's just right.
Thank you for your patience.
If you're watching the recording, you can fast forward a little bit.
That's always a nice feature, isn't it? O- u- have you seen this?
Does this look familiar? I know some of you
have seen it. Okay. Um,
yeah, some people say, "Oh yeah, that's the game I used to play with my kids in
church."
Yeah, maybe you can relate to that. I'm almost there.
I wanna make sure it's just right. Thank you for your
patience.
Almost there. Oh,
yeah. Okay.
You know, I always do this
fresh each time because I just want it to be just
right. Perfect.
Okay. Now, notice if you will
my dots. What do you notice?
And you can put it in the comments or in the chat if you want to.
What do you notice
as you look at my dots?
Wait, what?
There's a dot missing.
Are you sure?
A missing dot?
One missing. One missing. Yeah, you're missing a dot, Dr. Paul.
Um, second one on the third line. Second one on the third line.
One, two, three. One, two... No, it's there.
It's a... Wait, what?
Hold on, hold on, hold on. Okay. I'm
getting, I'm getting a lot of feedback here that there's a dot
missing.
Let's review the process, shall we?
I said there's another thing I wanna share with you before we wrap up today.
Have you seen my dots? Some of you have seen my dots, and then I turned...
I grabbed this marker, I turned around, and I started putting up
this, right? So
question: Who
is the creator
of these dots?
Yes, thank you for that acknowledgement.
I'm the creator.
Did I know what I was doing?
Now, this is where you can practice a little grace and maybe,
"Okay. All right. Maybe you
knew what you were doing." Do you think I've done it with other people?
Do you think I've shown this to hundreds of people over the last
couple of decades? Yes, I have.
Did I do it on purpose? Yes, I
did.
All right. So what's the next question?
And please don't ask why is there a dot missing.
That assumes that there is. What if you were to ask, "Is there a dot missing?"
Thank you for asking. No.
It's perfectly designed
by its creator
for its creator's
purpose.And I'll be transparent with you about
that. My purpose in drawing these dots
for you today, and I did it carefully-- Do you remember during the process
I said at least three times, go watch the recording,
at least three times, "I wanna make sure it's just
right"? And then when I finished, I said the
word perfect. Play back the
transcripts. Let's see if he really did.
Yes, I did.
Perfect. For what? For my purpose.
There's no dots missing.
Now, at this point, you might be
thinking, "Okay, Dr. Paul, I get it.
You wanted it that way. I know that
there's a dot missing, but you wanted it that way, so I'm cool with
it."
If you're thinking that, you missed the point.
There is no dot missing. Now,
let me help you out 'cause I'm a professional psychologist.
Why is your brain thinking that
there's a dot missing even still? 'Cause you look at this and it's like,
"Oh, there's..."
Why? Why is your brain thinking that?
Because of your files.
Now, I'm saying the word files now, but I also mean programming.
All right? Your programming is set
up to tell you that there's a dot
missing. Why?
When you experience your what it is,
and I'm calling right back to that first model that we started with and everything
we're building on, everything that we know here, okay?
When your mind evaluates your
environment, it has to compare it to something.
Evaluation implies comparison with some standard.
You with me? So when, when I show
you something l- like, like this, what is
this? Yes, you're right. It's a
pen. How do you know that? Because you got a file in
your head that says pens, and you pull out that file and
you've got images and descriptions and it's like, "This is what to look
for. Oh, pen. It matches what's in
my file." And so you can confidently declare that's what it is.
You're comparing it to your files.
I went to my, to my dots, you went to your
files.
You didn't even know you had one of these.
But apparently you did because you went to your files
and you looked inside. You're like, "I know where Dr. Paul's going with this.
Let's see, let's see, let's see. Oh yes, there it
is." Ta-da. Do you
recognize this one? Yes, you do,
'cause you found it right here in your files, right?
And then you did the comparison. You're like,
"Wait a minute.
These don't match.
There must be something wrong with
that one." No, not this one. No,
this one is sacred.
Found this one in my files. This is the way
it
should be. And you
confidently declared in the face of the
Creator Himself that there was something wrong with
that one.
And then you filed this back away, and I just invite you to notice
how right you knew you were. And this is
one of the main mistakes we make as
humans. Dr. Richard Nisbett wrote a book
called Thinking. It was endorsed by Malcolm Gladwell of all people.
And he was on my mic here at Live on Purpose Radio, on my podcast.
It's-- This is where I record that.
And Dr. Nisbett said this. And he made his whole
career on how we think. He said, "The main error
that we make as humans
is that we believe what we
think."
What?
And he's right. It's not that we think we're right, it's that we
believe what we think,
and that means we know we're right
even when we're not.
And then our amazing brain takes those
glasses that, that paradigm that we're wearing and makes it
look normal
to us.
Watch out for it. Okay?
How-- Where else does this apply? I mean, you look at yourself, you
look at your relationships,
you look at your finances or your business.
W-what is it that you look at? What is it that's emotionally hijacking
you? This is the emotional freedom challenge.
What is it in your life that you're looking at and you're saying, "Oh, there's
something wrong with that one"? You look in the mirror, "Oh,
there's something wrong with that one." Really?
Who's your creator? Did
they know what they were doing? Did they do it on purpose?
I already acknowledged to you guys I'm a man of faith.
I believe that we have a creator. I believe that our creator knew what he was
doing and that it was done on purpose.
Therefore, whatever this is, is
perfectly designed
for its creator's purpose. Do you see that that's
true of my dots?
What if you are perfectly
designed-By a creator who
knew what they were doing
for a purpose.
And that if I, if I drew this the way you wanted it to look, it wouldn't
fulfill my purpose, and my purpose is to have this
conversation, and it works every time as long as I draw it like that.
What if that's true for us as humans?
What if we were to notice
what paradigm
is driving our emotional
experience? And without trying to change it, just
notice it. The... You're going to notice two things from today's
conversation, then we're gonna get to the challenge task, okay, 'cause we're up to
that point.
You're going to notice two things.
Number one, you, and
me too, I'm in that group, are sometimes in
victim mode. I'm not saying you're a victim.
In fact, you don't make a good victim.
If you're here on this challenge, you don't make a good victim.
You live on purpose. You believe in the principles that we're talking
about here. It resonates with you as truth,
otherwise you wouldn't still be here on day three.
Notice that sometimes you are in victim mode.
Just notice it.
The other thing you're going to notice is other people
in victim mode. You're gonna see lots of examples of this.
Please do not point it out to them.
Okay? Just fair warning, if they're in
victim mode and you point it out to them, guess who they're gonna blame now
for their misery? Okay? People pay me good money
to help them see this, and they still don't wanna know.
They still don't wanna see it. Just know it's, it stings a little to see your own
hands on the wheel, but if your hand's on the wheel, you're not
pointing, and if you're not pointing, if you're pointing, your hands aren't on the
wheel. Choose. Choose a position.
Awareness precedes choice. I hope that you're stepping into awareness.
Today's challenge task
is called upside down.
All right, now, you need to go find a pair of glasses.
No, I'm not talking about that, but we're going to do something a little
similar, and I invite you to notice whatever you
notice from this. This is a
24-hour challenge, and it can be a
little less depending on what you choose. Here's the challenge.
Pick something
on purpose that you do routinely
and change it. Okay.
So example, I
always wear my watch on my
left hand. What if I were to
remove that watch and put it on my right
hand?
That doesn't feel right.
Okay, that's what I'm talking about.
What if you always put your right shoe on your right
foot? And what if for the next 24 hours you put your right shoe
on your left foot and your left shoe on your right foot?
What if for the next 24 hours you chose to wear your shirt
backwards? What if for the next tw- you pick
something, okay? Pick something that you do routinely and
intentionally flip it upside down.
Do it differently
as an experiment. It's not going to feel right
any more than changing your paradigm is going to feel
right at first if your programming is in
the negativity vector. Okay? Now, I've
got, I've got a lot of emails and comments about this, okay?
I'm trapped in this negative... Yes, I know,
and you come by it honestly because your
programming tells you that that's normal, just
like George Stratton saw everything normally on day
eight with the upside down glasses.
It's not going to feel normal if you're programmed in negativity
to switch over and try these positivity glasses on for a while.
And again, it's not toxic positivity where we deny the pain.
In fact, I'm inviting you to feel every emotion you get to
feel. We're changing that we get hijacked by it,
okay? That's the part that's gonna change for us.
So pick something
to experiment with so that your brain can
start to latch onto, okay, different is not bad, it's just
weird. It's just different. If you're learning a new language, you'll
experience the same thing. It'll sound foreign to you, I promise, for a
while. We're playing with our brain a little here.
Now, keep going on the gratitude power up.
You should be on day three now for your gratitude list, 25/5.
Keep going on Better by Eight, and share how that's
going, by the way. L- Mia, I love that you shared your
experience with that. Share in the Facebook group because this
is our story with your details, and as you
share, we all start to see it that we're in the same boat
together here as a human family, okay?
And then today's challenge is just for the next 24 hours, you don't have to do it
until Friday. In fact, you don't have to do it at all.
All of the challenges are optional.
It just depends on whether you want the outcomes or not.
All right? Today's challenge, upside
down, pick something that you do routinely and
intentionally flip it on its
head. Okay? Do it differently for the next 24 hours.
Let's see what we can discover as we do that.
All right, you guys, that's day three.
You can still share. We still have room to bring people into the challenge if they
wanna come in. You can also go to
theemotionalchallenge.com/getvip
if you want to have access to all the recordings for all of the main
sessions and the Q&A that we do afterward with special
guests and, you get all that with the VIP option.
We still have some seats available. Share.
Share what you're learning with others.
Even if it's not bringing them to the challenge, start to share it.
Um, it makes such a difference. All right, you guys, I'll see you on day
four. Those of you who are in the VIP room, stick around.
You know the drill. Um, we'll stop, the feed now to
Facebook. Thanks you guys for joining us.
I'll see you on Facebook.
All right. We're going